Hello everybody and welcome back.
In this lecture we're going to talk about the structure of a string.
Now what the strings and arrays have in common with a string is a group of characters and we store those
characters in an array.
That group of characters will be an array.
Now strings are varying in length.
This is important.
It'll become more important later on as well.
When we start talking about memory management and how strings would take up a varying amounts of memory
depending on how long they are.
And as I'm alluding to here a string is simply an array of characters.
And if string is a T array of T cha.
Now these specifically are just the keywords that we're going to be using in unreal now let's have a
closer look at our f string hidden word.
We've initialized it to cakes.
Now if we were to evaluate the length for that by go in here and word dot L E N and then our parentheses
we will get back five because what that does is it doesn't include the null terminating character at
the end.
Let's have a look at how this would be.
So it actually has six characters in it that backslash zero.
That that is the end of that string.
So it knows where to where that string starts and where it stops.
Now when you're counting you actually starts counting from zero.
Now this is an important concept.
It's like an offset of minus one.
So if we wanted to return the letter C from cakes we would have to access Element Zero of our character
array or in this case Element Zero of our f string if we were to return element three of the hidden
word.
It wouldn't be k obviously that's the third but element 3 is in fact the fourth letter of air so it
would return the character E.
Now this point it's worth mentioning that if we try to access a hidden word elements of five or greater
it will crash unreal even if it did work we would be accessing something outside the memory allocated
to hit and words would be complete garbage.
But it will crash on real.
So just be careful.
Now if we have a look at this statement here we have a concept teacher called array of characters and
we can see this variable name has square brackets on it that indicates it is in array.
Now we can put a number in there and declare straightaway how large this array will be.
That's quite error prone as it is very easy to forget the normal character.
So we're going to leave it as it is because we're immediately assigning it on the same lines as not
a chance of any other code manipulating this to cakes.
So is automatically going to be an array of characters that is six in length for us.
Now you notice at the beginning here we've got something called const now const is simply a promise
that we won't change any of the elements within our array.
So it will now be set to cakes and element 0 will be see forever more.
Now that can be overridden and we'll talk about const in more detail later on.
Now whether it's a concept t char for our array or whether it's a string itself it's a promise not to
change any of its Okay everybody let's go ahead and find where we can start typing in our code.
I think our set up game function is going to be the place to do it.
This is what appears immediately when we go ahead and press play over and on real.
So stop playing with things here.
Now before we start creating our own little array what I'd like to do is show you what happens if we
hover overhead and word we can see that it's an F string.
Now if we hover over cakes we can see that it's a constant character array of six in length that's been
set to cakes and this is where you'll go.
As I alluded to earlier in the slides.
Well that's only five.
OK.
So let's start off with our keyword concept.
We'll cover this in more detail as we start needing to use it.
Our costs can apply to many things in this case it just means we promise not to alter the array in the
future during its lifetime.
So in this case is a concept.
Now we could just use char in this point to say character but I'll do this first and then we'll change
it to a T char in a moment.
We need to give it a name.
I'm going to use H W and then we need to create an a race or tell it that it's an array with the square
brackets.
Now we cannot leave it like this.
It's incomplete.
We also can't just assign a value of zero.
So we cannot here just say equals something to fill in later on that would throw us a wobbly.
However if we were to type in cakes here that's it's gone and set.
If we were then to go ahead and look at h w we can see it's a constant character array that set to cake's
really useful.
Now let's change this out to a teacher.
It's not going to like that because now it's expecting this to be wrapped within our text macro.
That's important.
Without that that will fail.
So there we go.
We've got everything sorted here.
Now when we hover over h w we can see if it's a constant t chart array set to H W and we can see it
set to l cakes.
And you don't need to worry about that at the moment.
So there we go we've got ourselves the array of characters sets.
Okay so just for fun.
What you could do in this instance add to build up an array of characters is the following as well so
we're going to take what we've already got written here but you can literally pop in each character
individually like so.
But we need to tell it it's an array so we need to pop it in some squiggly brackets.
Now we'll be dealing with creating our own array later on as well.
But for the moment we can puppets in like this.
And then we can keep adding more and more letters to our array.
So here for instance normally I'd advise against copying and pasting but here for instance it's gonna
save us quite a bit of time.
We can go against each of these and change it out for cakes like so.
But in this particular example providing we actually include the commas in this.
So the danger of cutting and pasting but we need one more in here.
We also need the null character at the end.
Otherwise it won't be strictly true and won't work.
So that's another example of how we can build up an array.
Now we'll be building our own array of words that we will assess and add into the game later wrong in
the section.
So we get to play with arrays in a bit more detail.
But for the moment let's dive back into how we grab elements of this array.
So let's go ahead here and have a look.
Let's get rid of.
Line 40 and let's have a look at printing out.
Let's go ahead here and print line text macro.
Let's say here character one of the hidden word is.
And then we're going to need a new format specified in this case percentage see.
Now we need to assign something here.
And I'd like you to pause for a second on the video and think what you might type in here to get character
one of the hidden word
okay.
Welcome back.
Now how many of you thought it might be in this case we will use hidden word then our square brackets
followed by zero.
Now all being well what this should do is print outs the first character which is a C..
Now finally what I'm going to do here is we're also going to print out a character from r h w character
array and let's go ahead and change this to something like plums instead.
And then we can go ahead and print line text macro and then the let's go for the fourth.
So we're looking for the M in this case of the fourth character.
Of H W is that we need our format specify the new one we've learnt today percentage C and then we're
going to do H W and then not a parentheses but in fact square brackets here.
Now that needs to be element 3 and once we've done that this should print out the letter M and I forgot
to comment.
That's out.
Okay.
So now we've done that we've saved our work.
Let's go over into unreal compiler code and what we should find is that it will print out the letter
C we have a look quickly our code again prints out the letter M and then because we are printing the
line here are debug lines saying what the hidden word is after it's printed out all those instructions
is also going to print out the hidden word just underneath.
So let's go ahead.
Press play and here we go.
The hidden word is C the fourth character is m.
This is good.
This is exactly what we want to be able to do.
We can now reach into our code and pull out specific characters.
Now whilst we do have to use values that are integers within the square brackets we can use code to
generate those integers not just have to type them in manually which is really useful.
And that's going to come in a lot of use in a couple of lectures time.
But for now now that we have a rough idea of how we can assess individual characters of an F string
or indeed an array of characters it's time for your challenge Okay so your challenge is to create the
is Isiah Graham function that's going to start doing the checking now.
At this stage I'd only like you to focus on the pseudo coding.
However it's good.
At the end to return the value.
True because then it does mean that our code will operate even though the rest of it will probably be
commented out.
So create the is Isiah Graham function.
Now what would you pass into the is Isiah Graham.
Think about that when you go ahead and create your it's the ground function.
Just a reminder here it will return a boolean and pseudocode the process that we will go through in
order to check the F string characters against one another.
Now you may find it beneficial at this point it's actually write down how you do it manually.
Step away from the computer perhaps even write the characters down and draw some lines between them
working out how you'd assess one against the other.
And then of course there's another layer to this because once you've checked the first character against
all of the others you need to check the next character.
So when we get to creating the loop for this it will actually be a loop within a loop because we're
going to iterate around all of the letters of either our hidden word or the guess that the player has
made anyway.
Go ahead now and pseudocode up your is ISO ground function and make sure you put all of the other bits
in that are necessary for this function to work.
Pulls the video now and give that a go
Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go ahead now hop on over into V.S. code and start pseudo coding or resize the ground function
OK so back over MVS code I'm gonna go to my head a file first of all and pop in here a boo.
So that's one thing to remember here is returning something.
It's our first function that's returning and is Isiah Graham is going to be its name.
Now I'm not sure what I'm going to be passing into it's at the moment.
However once I've worked that's how I can give it a specific name here.
Now it may end up being just like process gas up here.
If I think I think it's probably going to be the case our code is eventually going to get this working
again.
So let's go and bring this out now.
Here it is.
I Graham that is not quite right yet.
We're going to be calling a function here.
So we're going to be passing this function into this if statement and that will basically mean that
the function is either going to return true or false.
So if it says if not true then we're going to say this and then we need our early return.
We haven't put that in here.
Otherwise it will carry on because it will be an ice a gram.
So we've got this check coming from a function that we haven't defined yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Let's go to the bottom of our code here.
So this is returning a boolean.
We know that already.
And then we need.
Are you bool Cal cartridge.
Caroline colon.
And there we go.
There it is is appeared put parentheses in and our code.
Now this is where we can start pseudo coding what's going to be going on.
However what I'm going to do here is just return true.
That means that at the moment when this function is called it will just return true and carry on with
the rest of our code which is what we wanted to do because it won't actually be functional at the moment.
So let's do the pseudocode here.
Now I could comment block out the entire lot but I'm just going to type it in manually to begin with.
Now you could go to extreme lengths with this but for the moment we just need a good idea of what's
going on.
So I'm going to be really simple here because we're just going to save for each letter we're going to
start at element zero.
And we're going to compare we're going to do a comparison against the next letter until we reach.
Now this is important.
So if we're going through each individual letter we're going to reach a point where we know the length
of a hidden word but if we actually do the length of the hidden word within this element.
So if we start using code in here and we get the hidden word length which we can put in there because
it will return a value but we actually use the hidden word like if you recall earlier we were talking
about how if you assessed something that was out of bounds it would crash on real for example with cakes.
The word is five letters long.
When we return its length it is also five letters long that seems okay.
However if we put him the fifth element it will end up out of bounds so we need to do the hit word length
minus one to make sure we get the fifth character which is in fact the fourth element in the F string.
So this is until we reach it I'm just gonna shorthand this here it's going to be the gas length minus
one that's the important thing there to avoid that crash.
Now I bet that's got some of you out.
It would certainly get me out if I was going around for the first time it will crash will come back
and realize it will give us an error in this case on line ninety six is out of bounds if that's what's
happened to you this is why and if we say here if the Oh not now this is an interesting one just typing
through this has made me think until we reach the opposite guess here but we might be assessing the
hidden word being pulled from a list.
So this is not just about a guess.
This is a much more generic function that we're creating that we'll just check.
Any word that we pass in.
So let's let's change that to a word and that will become clear as we start creating the rest of our
code.
I got a bit of foresight here obviously because I've created the entire bunch of code.
But if you're creating a new function think about it not just as how it's going to work in your particular
game at this moment but really think about what it's doing and name things appropriately so this will
be a local variable as part of the is Isaac Ram.
So until we reached the word dot length if any letters are the same we're going to return false and
then otherwise we're returning true.
So that's enough.
When it comes to our pseudo coding.
Now if you happen to have typed in something that is much more detailed.
Great.
That's brilliant.
It means you've gone through a lot of thoughts.
In fact the first time I went through this I went through on pen and paper I typed much more of a mess
and then I condensed it down to what it really is that we're doing on each thing.
So rather than getting into the nitty gritty detail.
So finally are we passing anything in here.
Yes we are we're going to pass in a word whether or not that word is a player's guess or whether it's
a word from a word list that we've grabbed from online.
We can pass in here a word.
Now it's not just going to be a word.
It's going to be an F string word.
Let's say that go over to the header file because now whereas in with the process guess who are passing
in the F string guess now we can pass in an F string word.
OK.
So there's one final place here that we need to go and have a look if we go back over and into our implementation
if we scroll up a little.
Yes we've got a red squiggle here too few arguments.
Yes.
Now you may think our password in there now word is this variable that is only used down here at the
moment it's not declared not defined anywhere else.
So we can't use word we wouldn't want to use word either.
What we're doing in this particular place is using this function to assess the player's inputs because
it's part of process guess.
So this is where we can pass in the guess.
That's what we're passing in here.
Now some of you might have reached for inputs instead but input is out of scope of this particular function.
What we are using just to clarify is when we process the gas when we call that function we're passing
in the inputs past great parts at this point.
When we pass in the inputs we're assigning it the variable name.
Yes.
This is the beautiful thing here.
We can copy the value of inputs to guess and then when we go ahead and use it it makes far better contextual
sense as you're running through this because that's what we're doing the processing the gas.
And at this point we're passing the gas in to make sure that the player hasn't typed in any repeating
letters.
And if that works we're all done.
So let's go ahead and save our file what we should find here is that our code behaves exactly as it
did before because this code just returns true.
So we should jump straight on to checking whether the hidden word length is longer or shorter than the
gas length OK so let's go ahead compile our code.
Okay so now that it's compiled let's go ahead and play here.
We still got that other stuff in which I will remove in a moment.
Let's go ahead here and typing cakes
Excellent.
We have one.
If we take the wrong number of characters in K brilliant let's go back over to our code and do a tiny
bit to tidy up the first thing I want to do is just comment out these for the moment I'll probably remove
them in the fullness of time.
And the other thing I wanted to do is here I set your mike her challenge before.
So at this point in time if we're going through each letter of ID of a particular word and assessing
it against the other letters in that word that's a lot more heavy lifting then checking whether or not
their lengths are equal or whether it's the same thing.
So in this particular case it would make far more sense if the checking if an ice a gram comes after
these two really quick checks to make otherwise we're doing a lot of heavy lifting when one of these
might be true.
Now this is obviously the first thing we need to do because we wouldn't want to assess any of these
others first but then if the length is the same as the hidden word length then we can continue guessing.
It's a very quick and easy comparison to do.
Now if we had very big words or large data sets or whatever when it starts to come to comparing one
thing against another and there may be many of them that's going to take longer to do.
But putting it here means that these two things are assessed first and your code is that little bit
more performance because of it.
Excellent.
How did you guys get on.
Did you come across any of the gotchas that we had during this lecture.
I hope your code is coming along really well.
Looking forward to seeing your progress please share your work as you go and I'll see you all.
And then next lecture.